NAME
        Guilds

SYNOPSIS
        This is not a command, simply information.

DESCRIPTION
        A guild is an association of people who share a way of life, a craft,
        or other trait. They provide background to a character and give access
        to abilities and emotions associated with the guild. In return for
        giving access to its abilities, guilds take an amount of experience in
        tax. A person can join only one guild of a certain type. There are
        five different types of guilds to be found:

        adventurer - this guild doesn't have to be joined. It can be found in
                     many villages and offers its services to most visitors.
                     Skills offered here do not exceed superior layman.
		     
        craft      - a guild focused on a certain trade or craft that is not
                     directly associated with combat.
		     
        layman     - a guild providing a secondary or layman trade to players.
                     it offers less (combat) abilities than the occupational
                     guild and should not overpower it thematically.
		     
        occupational - the main guild that defines the character thematically
                     as well as providing the the most versatile skills the
                     players need. They often have special (combat) abilities
                     that are unique to the guild.
		     
        race       - a guild focussed solely on players of a certain race and
                     that further defines the (sub)race of the player. It
                     offers mostly atmosphere and little or no combat aid.
		     
        club       - a club is basically a leader-less guild that simply
	             provides some flavour for your character, usually in
		     form of additional "emotes" and also possibly a club
		     item. There are numerous clubs in the realms, into
		     some of the clubs you can get in only by an invitation
		     of a member, but most you can simply join whenever you
		     want. You can in as many clubs as you wish.

		     

SEE ALSO
        experience, improve, learn, meditate
