NAME
        levels - show the possible level descriptions for many concepts
 
SYNOPSIS
        levels
        levels <concept>
 
DESCRIPTION
        With this command you can see the possible descriptions of many
        concepts related to the state of a player in the mud. The following
        are currently described:
        
        Stats & experience:
        
        - mortal
          The possible titles mortal players can have.

        - stat-strength stat-dexterity stat-constitution stat-intelligence
          stat-wisdom stat-discipline
          These will describe the possible levels for your stats, respectively
          your strength, dexterity, constitution, intelligence, wisdom and
          discipline. The command "stats" will show yours.
          
        - compare-strength compare-dexterity compare-constitution
          compare-intelligence compare-wisdom compare-discipline
          These describe the terms that you get when you compare your stats
          with another living using the "compare" command.
 
	- stat-improve
	  Describes your total growth in experience since you logged in today.
 
	- brute
	  Describes the ratio between your combat and quest experience.
 
        Vitals:
        
        - health mana
          Describes respectively your physical and mental health.
        
        - fatigue panic
          Describes how tired and panicky you are.
        
        - stuffed soaked intox headache
          Describes respectively how much you have eaten, how much you have
          drunk, how intoxicated you are and the headache levels.
 
        - encumberance
          The levels that indicate how much you carry.
 
        Weapons & armours:
        
        - armour
        - weapon-condition weapon-rust
          These describe the various states of wear of a weapon or armour.
 
        General:
        
        - good-align evil-align
          Describe the alignment levels for people of good or evil alignment.
        
        - female-beauty male-beauty
          Describe the beauty levels for females and males.  
 
OPTIONS
        [none]    - see a list of the available concepts
        <concept> - Show the possible descriptions for this concept
 
SEE ALSO
        stats, skills, vitals
