Wizards may only be created by authorized personnel in the wizard community.
These authorized personnel include Lieges and Archwizards. In most cases,
the process works along these lines:

    1. A player posts an application on the 'wizapp' board. See <help wizzap>
       for standard expectations.

    2. Domain Lieges and Archwizards evaluate the application and indicate
       interest on the board by posting notes in response that only fellow
       wizards have the ability to read. 

    3. In the case that more than one Domain Liege is interested, it is the
       applicant who chooses the domain they wish to join and the Liege
       who will mentor them.

    4. If no Domain Liege indicates interest, it will be up to the AoD
       to communicate to the player whether they have a future in the
       wizard community at present. The AoD may add them to a domain that
       has no Liege and mentor them personally, or tell them that there
       is no one interested in their application at this time.

    5. New wizards must not be left unmentored. It will always, in the end,
       be up to a freshly minted immortal to light their own fire and
       motivate themself to learn and prosper, but a mentor should be in
       place for each new wizard, and the wizard community is expected to
       offer general assistance and a friendly welcome.

The <promote> command is used to create a wizard from a mortal. The fresh
wizard will be at Apprentice level, and nearly powerless to do much of
anything until they join a domain. They can begin their journey at this
point by reading the scroll given to all new wizards and following its
many instructions for orientation and manual reading.

They may be added to a domain via the <apply> / <accept> process by an
interested Liege, or <draft>ed into a domain by an Archwizard. This will
raise them from Apprentice to (full) Wizard level, and give them all the
powers needed to begin their coding career.

Once a wizard, always a wizard. Any character that becomes a wizard may
not be returned to mortal status. If it turns out that wizhood does not
suit the player, the character who became a wizard is automatically deleted
upon demotion and the name banished forever from future use. It is there-
fore a good idea for players to create a brand-new character to use as
their wizard rather than offering up a long-crafted and beloved mortal
who they will never have the option to play again.

Important general concepts about what is expected of all wizards can be
found via <help wizhood>.

Obsolete: (useful historical context)

In the early days of Genesis, a value of 100 was needed in all mental
and physical mortal stats for a player to be eligible for wizardhood, and
a wiz-quest was then something they could undertake. Upon completion of
the wiz-quest, they were auto-promoted by code to Apprentice wiz level and
allowed to reside in the now mostly obsolete Wizard Island areas. In these
older times, it was naturally assumed that the end-goal of playing the game
was to eventually become a wizard. 

Sometime around 1994 the wiz-quest was de-commissioned, and creation of a
new wizard required the application and manual promotion process we still
use today. However, protocol still dictated that a player must use a well-
established main character (their main) as the wizard-to-be. This process
eventually came to be seen as a detriment to the health of the playerbase,
as all too many well-established community members ended up leaving the game
for good when, after a failed wizard attempt, they found that their favorite
character was not permitted to return to being mortal.

In this high-stakes setup, there was a brief period of time when a special
try-out rank called Madwand was created, in which a mortal could try out
being a wizard with their character, with the guarantee that if they did
not like it, and wanted to return to being a mortal, they could. This rank
was done-away with sometime after 1995.

There were various periods between 1994 and 2000 when it again became legal
to allow wizards to return to mortal using the same character name. This,
however, ended up causing problems, and so that option is again indefinitely
removed. 

Also obsolete is the practice of brusquely yelling RTFM! at young wizards
who are attempting to figure out how to code. In the old days, we were a
population consisting mainly of college students, with a high percentage of
those being comp-sci affiliates. We now find ourselves training many who
are true beginners to code and unix-based command-line environments, so we
treat them with a bit more care and kindness by default.
